I'm working on a Flask-based pet tracker application that uses Python, Flask, and SQLAlchemy (with Alembic for migrations) on a PostgreSQL database. Recently, during our Google OAuth authentication flow, the logs started showing the following error:

vbnet
Copy
Database error: (psycopg2.errors.UndefinedColumn) column user.role does not exist
...
[SQL: SELECT "user".id AS user_id, "user".email AS user_email, ..., "user".role AS user_role, ... FROM "user" WHERE "user".email = %(email_1)s ...]
This suggests that our code expects a role column in the user table even though it does not exist. I suspect a migration was either missed or not applied.

Please help me resolve this issue by:

Fixing the Schema Issue:

If the role column is required for our user model (for example, to differentiate user permissions), provide a migration script (or an update to the SQLAlchemy model) that adds the role column to the user table with a secure default (e.g., 'user').

Alternatively, if the role field is no longer needed, remove all references to it from the code and adjust the SQL query accordingly.

Improving Error Handling:

Update the authentication endpoint so that if a database error occurs (such as a missing column), it logs the detailed error internally but returns a generic error message to the client, thereby preventing disclosure of sensitive internal details.

Ensuring Security Best Practices:

Confirm that our SQL queries are fully parameterized (as is standard with SQLAlchemy) to prevent SQL injection.

Verify that our error logging mechanism avoids leaking sensitive information to the frontend.

Preventing Future Issues:

Suggest a process or improvements (like automated migration checks or integration into our deployment pipeline) that ensures all necessary database migrations are applied in both development and production.

Provide updated code snippets for:

The migration script or SQLAlchemy model modifications.

The revised authentication handling code with enhanced error handling.

Any configuration changes that enforce secure error logging.

This prompt should help resolve the current error and also guide us in preventing similar issues from occurring in the future.